## Chapter 1.

### What is Python?
- Python is a _high level, interpreted , interactive and object-oriented_ programming language.
- It's designed to be easily readable as it frequently uses english keywords and few syntactical constructions. Here's the **print** method: 

  ```print("Let's learn Python")```
- Python is processed at **runtime** by the interpreter, which means that Python programs don't need to be compiled pre-execution(_I will get down to more details on this_)
- The interactive side of Python means you can use *python prompt* to interact with the interpreter directly to create programs!
- Since Python is an Object-Oriented programming language, it supports an object-oriented style of programming which encapsulates code within objects.

### Why learn Python?
Python was designed in a way that is easy to understand and to read. It uses English keywords and doesnt't require long variable declarations or the use of curly braces for functions or classes.

For example a ```for``` loop for Python using self-explained English keywords:
```python
numbers = [67, 89, 100]
for i in numbers:
  print(i)

# Output: 67 89 100
```

Python is also considered as economical programming, savings lines of code as compared to other langauges. For similar problem or task, Python can often require 3-5 times less code than Java, and up to 10 times less code than C++. Also being an __Object Oriented__ programming language, it really act as beginner's stepping stone to learn other object-oriented programming languages, & can help us adapt to other programming environment.


| ch02  | 
| -------|
| Versions| 

### Python 2
The final version of Python 2 came out in 2010, and despite Python3 being latest hotshot of the language, many programmers still uses Python v2.7. One of the advantage of Python 2 is that it has been around far longer than v3, therefore therefore there's more technical support and help available. Minor difference between v2 & v3 is that in v2, `print` is treated as statement instead of a function, therefore it eliminates use of passing arguments through paraentheses, for example:

```python
print "Hello Python!"
```

### Python 3
Python3 was released in 2008 with the goal to simplify Python, making it more easier to use. The goal of this new Python version was to also change the way a language handles strings, consequently enabling it to meet demands of the language today.

Python3 is the first release which is incompatible with previous python versions, which is why some people still use Python2, as they find some packages and libraries not working with latest Python versions. 

In Python3, you must pass items to print explicitly to the function in parentheses as folows:
```python
print("This is new Quirks of Python3")
```
Python3 is contemplated as an improved version of Python2, with fewer mistakes, and easier for beginners to understand and use. Let's dive into latest version. As a beginner, the best bet is **Pyhton3**. This is a standard which is advancing faster and you don't have to worry at all about porting a whole Python2 application to Python3(the main reason why python 2 hung around for so long).


ch03 |
--- |
Environment|

### Python Environment

Python comes Pre-installed on most Linux distributions and is available as packages or installers on all other operating systems. Everything you need can be found on:

[Python Downloads](https://www.python.org/downloads "Python downloads page") 

After installing Python, fire up a new terminal(Unix/MacOS) or PowerShell(Windows) in order to run the Python REPL shell:
```python
#$ python3
#Python 3.6.2 (v3.6.2:5fd33b5926, Jul 16 2017, 20:11:06) 
#[GCC 4.2.1 (Apple Inc. build 5666) (dot 3)] on darwin
# Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
>>> quit()
#$
```

**REPL** stands for the _Read-Eval-Print Loop_ which evaluates each line of code you write and outputs the result. Even though it may sound like something new, it is not. We just invoked the Python REPL from another REPL application- the shell inside the terminal. 


It is advisable not to use the REPL interpreter for longer snippets of code, however. It is generally easy to write a Python code in a text editor or an IDE of your choice. There are lot of options here: [Emacs](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/), [Vim](http://www.vim.org/), [Sublime](https://www.sublimetext.com/), and IDEs like [PyCharm](https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/), [Spyder](https://pythonhosted.org/spyder/index.html), [Jupyter Notebook](http://jupyter.org/)  etc. each with there unique advantages and disadvantages.The choice for the beginners is using a simple text editor [Atom](https://atom.io/), which is simple to use and highly customizable.

To run python file, it should firstly have the `.py` extension. Then, invike a new terminal inside the directory and write:
`$ python3 pythonoob.py`

### The classic Hello, World.
We can write our first Python program, and print Hello, World to the console! It cannot get any simpler. So to do this, in our Python Interpreter(REPL), we can use Python's `print` method. as follows:
```
>>> print("Hello, World!")
# Hello, World!
```


